# @tfso/extended-error

`ExtendedError` makes it easier to create `Error` with custom properties

## Installation

Install from the command line:

```
$ npm install @tfso/extended-error@1.0.0 --save
```

Install via package.json:

```
"@tfso/extended-error": "1.0.0"
```

## Usage

### Javascript import

```javascript
const ExtendedError = require('@tfso/extended-error') //  as a JavaScript package
// or
const { ExtendedError } = require('@tfso/extended-error') //  access the class itself
```

### TypeScript import

```typescript
import ExtendedError from '@tfso/extended-error' //  as a TypeScript package
// or
import { ExtendedError } from '@tfso/extended-error' //  access the class itself
```

### Create an error

```javascript
const ExtendedError = require('@tfso/extended-error')

let error = new ExtendedError('Not found', { status: 404 })

console.log(error.message) // Not found
console.log(error.status) // 404
console.log(error instanceof Error) // true
console.log(error instanceof ExtendedError) // true
console.log(error.stack) // 'Error: Not found\n    at repl:1:9\n ...
```

This:

```javascript
throw new ExtendedError('Not found', { status: 404 })
```

is equivalent to:

```javascript
let error = new Error('Not found')
error.status = 400
throw error
```

# Credits

https://gist.github.com/slavafomin/b164e3e710a6fc9352c934b9073e7216

## Change log

The [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) is automatically generated by [`auto-changelog`](https://github.com/CookPete/auto-changelog) by analysing PR, tags and commits.

# Contribution

You are welcome to contribute to the project by creating a pull request. Please follow the guidelines below to
contribute effectively.

## Creating a Pull Request (PR)

To create a pull request, follow these steps:

### 1. Clone the repository

### 2. Create branch

-   Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.

```shell
git checkout -b feature/your-feature
```

### 2. Make Changes

-   Make your changes and ensure they follow our coding standards.

### 3. Commit Changes

-   Include `#deploy_branch` in your commit message in order to create a prerelease of your branch

```shell
git add .
git commit -m "Descriptive commit message #deploy_branch"
```

### 4. Push Changes

-   Push your changes to the repository.

```shell
git push origin feature/your-feature
```

### 5. Open a Pull Request

-   Go this repository on GitHub
-   Click on "New Pull Request."
-   Provide a detailed description of your changes.
-   Add a reviewer to your pull request.

## Prerelease

If you need to test your branch during development, create a commit that includes `#deploy_branch` in the commit message.
This will trigger a prerelease, allowing you to test in your project without creating a full package release.

### CICD rules

-   auto prerelease on commit message `#deploy_branch`
-   auto prerelease from `main` branch

## Release

To create a new official release that update the `latest` release of the package, follow these steps:

### 1. Merge to Master

-   Ensure your changes are merged into the main branch.

### 2. Draft a New Release

-   Go to the GitHub repository.
-   Click on the "Releases" tab.
-   Click "Draft a new release."

### 3. Tag the Release

-   Choose a version number following semantic versioning (e.g., v1.0.0).
-   Provide release notes summarizing the changes since the last release.

### 4. Publish the Release

-   Click "Publish release" to make it official.

Thank you for your contribution!
